.TH SINKZONE 1 "July 2025" "Sinkzone 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sinkzone \- DNS-based productivity tool that blocks distractions and helps you stay focused
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sinkzone
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sinkzone is a DNS-based productivity tool designed to reduce distractions and help you focus. It works by running a local DNS resolver that intercepts domain name queries. During focus sessions, only domains explicitly allowed via the allowlist will resolve — everything else is silently blocked.

The typical workflow:
.IP 1.
Start the DNS resolver with \fBsinkzone resolver\fR
.IP 2.
Use \fBsinkzone monitor\fR to view live DNS requests
.IP 3.
Add essential domains to your allowlist with \fBsinkzone allowlist add\fR
.IP 4.
Enable focus mode with \fBsinkzone focus enable <duration>\fR

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.B sinkzone resolver
Starts the DNS resolver service. This must be run first to enable all other functionality.

.TP
.B sinkzone monitor
Displays live DNS requests. Useful for discovering which domains your apps and websites access.

.TP
.B sinkzone allowlist add <domain>
Adds a domain to the allowlist (e.g., google.com). Only allowlisted domains resolve during focus mode.

.TP
.B sinkzone allowlist remove <domain>
Removes a domain from the allowlist.

.TP
.B sinkzone allowlist list
Lists all domains currently in the allowlist.

.TP
.B sinkzone focus --enable --duration 1h
Enables focus mode for a specified duration (e.g., 1h). All non-allowlisted DNS queries are blocked.

.TP
.B sinkzone focus --disable
Disables focus mode immediately.

.TP
.B sinkzone focus status
Displays whether focus mode is currently enabled.

.TP
.B sinkzone status
Shows overall system status: resolver running, focus mode status, recent queries.

.TP
.B sinkzone tui
Launches the interactive terminal interface.

.TP
.B sinkzone config
View or update system configuration (e.g., ports, defaults).

.TP
.B sinkzone completion <shell>
Generate shell autocompletion scripts (bash, zsh, fish, powershell).

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
Start the resolver:
.B sinkzone resolver

.TP
Monitor DNS queries:
.B sinkzone monitor

.TP
Allow access to GitHub:
.B sinkzone allowlist add github.com

.TP
List all allowed domains:
.B sinkzone allowlist list

.TP
Start a 90-minute focus session:
.B sinkzone focus --enable --duration 90m

.SH FILES
~/.sinkzone/config.yaml
.br
Sinkzone configuration file

.SH AUTHOR
Written by dOMiNiS - dominis@ber.run

.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dig(1), resolvectl(1) 
